" So if the mask is what we wear
to be accepted, the next question
is accepted by who, right?
Because you didn't just
make it up outta nowhere.
You were trained by your family and
your culture and your community.
There were these unspoken rules
and you learned how to follow them.
So let's talk about those rules.
Let's talk about the system.
What is it?
What are we up against?
Because these ideas about what
is right and who we need to be.
They don't just come from our parents.
They're reinforced by several
different pressures in our environment.
And the first and most immediate,
the most persistently powerful
among them are the neighbors.
These little stick figures here.
What will the neighbors think?
And we have a term for this.
It's keeping up with the Joneses, right?
Well, if I follow my heart, I'll,
I'll make less money and I won't
be able to buy that new car.
And then Jim will think I'm
not successful, and then
he'll think I'm weak or dumb.
And then, and, and then, and
then, so I betray my heart.
So I stay in my nine to five, so I
continue to look successful, even though
it leaves me feeling more and more empty.
The next pressure is the
institutionalized version of this, right?
This could be the cultural concepts of
what is right and what is good, and I
mean, it's right there in our language.
If, if I don't participate in the
system, go to a good job every day
and pay my property taxes and follow
the traditional path, I'm a what?
I'm a leach on society.
Do you feel it when I say that?
That one is deep inside you, isn't it?
"Oh God, I can't be that." Oh, and
speaking of  God, that's a big one too.
When our systems of morality move from the
social order  into the natural law, you're
not just afraid of judgment anymore.
You're afraid of being wrong, of
being bad, of being unloved by God.
Maybe I'm in an abusive marriage, but my
family believes that divorce is wrong.
I'd be the first one to
do it out of all of us.
Or you know, for the past several
centuries, if I was a man who was
attracted to men, I would've been heavily
ostracized, if not outright lynched.
Because of the prevailing beliefs about
what is natural and what is abominable,
there's things we never stop to question.
So yes, the mask formed as a strategy, a
way to survive these systemic pressures, a
way to secure love, safety, or connection.
But you're here now because that
strategy is starting to crack.
You're waking up to the realization
that the life you built from
behind the mask isn't enough.
It looks good on paper, but
it doesn't feel like you.
And that can be painful because in my
experience, you don't get there quick.
We often have to get the thing we thought
was gonna make us happy, was gonna make
the pain go away, to realize it was
never the thing we needed to begin with.
It was the thing they told us
we wanted and we believed them.
And for many of us, we may
have spent decades of our
lives striving to get there.
When you've invested everything
only to come up empty, it's a shock
and it deserves to be acknowledged,
to be processed, to be grieved.
If we don't acknowledge the true
problem, well many of us double down.
We say, I just need better sex,
A bigger house, a faster car.
I mean, that's the stereotypical
midlife crisis, right?
The sports car and the trophy wife.
But the truth is we never
wanted those things.
Can you hear that?
Can you really feel that
we didn't want them.
What we really wanted was the
way we thought we were going
to feel when we got them.
We wanted validation, security, meaning.
We wanted to feel like we were
whole and we thought we were
gonna get it from outside of us
without ever realizing the truth.
Because when we wear the mask long enough,
we start to think it's who we really are.
We forget there was ever someone
underneath it, that we were always
whole, and that we needed to look
inside instead of outside to find it.
And like I said, that's where
we find our unique greatness.
So that's what we're gonna do today.
In the next video, I'll introduce
the first exercise in the series.
It'll unmask our greatest potential.
See what I did there?
All right, see you on the other side.